# 5.0 :: Exhibition of Mastery

You've done a lot of work so far and you've learned some pretty dense content. Thank you for sticking around to this point. Courses at TTI finish with an **Exhibition of Mastery**. Take this as an opportunity to prove to yourself that you've learned what you wanted to in this course. Whether you share this with others is entirely up to you, but I welcome you to share it in our [community Discord](https://discord.gg/taggartinstitute), where myself or another member of our community can provide you feedback and support.

## Exhibition Rubric

By now you should feel comfortable with both creating Sigma rules and pySigma pipelines. There are two routes that you should consider with this exhibition:

1. Take a logsource that you are comfortable with and build a pipeline that can convert Sigma rules for that logsource. For example you may have kubernetes logs that you've shipped to Splunk and you want to use the rules from the [offical Sigma repo](https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma/tree/master/rules/application/kubernetes/audit). Create the pipeline, move the rules to your production environment, and see if you find any events!
2. Write your own Sigma rule. You can try to identify behavior in your existing logs. In our lab I ran Atomic Red Team to generate logs of malicious behavior. We only looked at a handful of rules during our course, but there were a lot of attacks performed. I am sure by just looking through the logs you can find some malicious behavior and write a new detection. Alternatively, you can look back to the exercise from section 4.3 and write a Sigma rule from another journal or article you find online. Once you've written the rule, convert it using your preferred pySigma tool (SigmaCLI, sigconverter.io, etc), and run the search in Splunk.

For extra credit, you can do both options. Build a pipeline for a new logsource and write your own Sigma rule to identify an instance of malicious or suspicious behavior in those logs.
For extra extra credit, publish your pipeline to your personal GitHub repo (Open source it! Make it public!) and publish your Sigma rule to the SigmaHQ community repo (Please be sure to follow their [submission standards](https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma-specification/blob/main/sigmahq/sigmahq_conventions.md))

If you can do any of these, even just one, you have demonstrated mastery of the material in this course. Thank you again for going on this learning journey!

- Josh Nickels (HGB)
