# 4.1 :: Atomic Red Team for Log Generation

Atomic Red Team is a free and open source tool by the great folks at Red Canary and is used by security engineers around the world to identify potential gaps in their detection and security monitoring tools. Atomic Red Team uses the MITRE ATT&CK framework to build a library of attacks that can be automatically executed one-by-one and provides a codebase that can be used to execute these attacks safely in a lab environment. (If you did not heed my advice last time about MITRE ATT&CK, please take the time now to visit [attack.mitre.org](https://attack.mitre.org) and look around.)

Atomic Red Team is not an automated pentest nor is it a replacement for executing malware in your lab for threat hunting and detection development. Instead it is a tool that can be used to create a baseline of your detection capacity in your environment. Between the Red Canary team and the MITRE ATT&CK team, many common attack techniques have been enumerated and automated and by executing this tool and confirming you have a detection for each one of them you can have a certain degree of confidence that you would see many attack techiques that might occur during a red team engagement.

While I recommend that you take the time to execute Atomic Red Team in your own environment, that is out of scope for this course. Instead I have provided you with the log files that you can import into your Splunk instance. Please follow these steps:

1. In the root folder of the [repo](https://github.com/The-Taggart-Institute/detection-with-sigma), download and unzip `Sample_Logs.zip`
2. Back on Splunk navigate to the `Settings` dropdown and select `Add data`
3. Select `Upload` and proceed through the prompts to upload your the logs. I recommend uploading them to the `winevent` index we were using in our pipelines previously, but you're welcome to use whatever index you'd like. Just remember to modify your pipeline to map it to the correct index later!

