# 1.0 :: Understanding Sigma Rules

In a typical Security Operations Center (SOC), an organization will collect logs that represent the activity happening on every computer, many applications, and the networking equipment in the environment they are responsible for protecting. These logs are collected and stored in a Security Information and Event Management platform (SIEM) that will provide some sort of query language or tool allowing an analyst to quickly parse the data. Even with a central storage of logs, which are often verbose and plentiful, analysts are still left with a dilemma: how do we find an attacker in this mountain of data? To tackle this problem, the security industry has developed a field called “detection engineering”. Individuals who often work as analysts and engineers in the SOC will use their experience and knowledge of cyber security to build queries that identify individual log elements (known as **atomics**) or collections of many logs (known as **aggregated data**) that represent malicious behavior.

Historically the problem of detection engineering was addressed in silos. The detection engineers would have access to only their logs and those logs are often unique to their network. Different tools and platforms use different field names, collection methods, and query methods. Because of these individual silos, detection engineers struggled to share their queries and detection rules with the broader community or to bring those detections into their workplace. With this problem in mind, two prominent detection engineers, Thomas Patzke and Florian Roth, developed the technology to support Sigma rules. 

Sigma rules provide a generic format for writing and interpreting the detections used to identify malicious behavior and are one of many ways to participate in the growing field of detection engineering. One of the primary advantages and goals of Sigma is that by using a standardized specification for field names and log sources, many teams and researchers can contribute to the Sigma rulebase without revealing sensitive information about the custom tools, field names, or log sources that exist in their data.

In order to implement Sigma rules in one’s own org, they must implement a backend and build pipelines that are responsible for transforming the generic rules into a query language specific to their log structure. During this course, we will implement the open source Splunk backend and build our own transformation pipelines. We will ingest rules from the Sigma community, transform them from the generic standard into our own specification, and then use these rules to detect malicious activities in our environment.

The Sigma community prefers to use the field names from the Windows security monitoring tool, [Sysmon](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon). Throughout this course we will mostly focus on Windows log sources as they represent the bulk of the publicly available Sigma rules. Take a look at the following rule:

```yaml
title: Remote Access Tool - Team Viewer Session Started On Windows Host
id: ab70c354-d9ac-4e11-bbb6-ec8e3b153357
related:
    - id: 1f6b8cd4-3e60-47cc-b282-5aa1cbc9182d
      type: similar
    - id: f459ccb4-9805-41ea-b5b2-55e279e2424a
      type: similar
status: experimental
description: |
    Detects the command line executed when TeamViewer starts a 	session started by a remote host.
    Once a connection has been started, an investigator can verify the connection details by viewing the "incoming_connections.txt" log file in the TeamViewer folder.
references:
    - Internal Research
author: Josh Nickels, Qi Nan
date: 2024-03-11
tags:
    - attack.initial-access
    - attack.t1133
logsource:
    category: process_creation
    product: windows
detection:
    selection:
        Image: 'TeamViewer_Desktop.exe'
        ParentImage: 'TeamViewer_Service.exe'
        CommandLine|endswith: 'TeamViewer_Desktop.exe --IPCport 5939 --Module 1'
    condition: selection
falsepositives:
    - Legitimate usage of TeamViewer
level: low
```

Sigma rules are human-readable. While the Splunk Search Processing Language (SPL) is a powerful query language, it can often be difficult to understand what is going on. Sigma attempts to use descriptive `key:value` pairs that give context to an analyst when they are ready to investigate. I will break down the components of this rule and perhaps give some insight in how we can build a backend to interpret this rule and convert it to SPL.

Starting from the top we have a `title` and an `id`. These are unique fields for each rule and provide an easy way to distinguish one rule from another while bulk-importing and parsing rules. The title is best for humans, while the id field, a [universally unique identifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier), is best for machines. Next we have the `related` field. This indicates that there are two other rules in the repo that share some characteristics with this rule. In this case, both of those rules share the same detection logic but are intended for a different log source. We will discuss log sources shortly.

The `status` field is an important field that is used by detection engineers to assist in understanding how confident they should be about the quality of this rule. This field is largely defined by the Sigma repo owners, but it is up to the greater community to provide feedback, tuning, and additional logs for each rule. When a rule is proven to be effective in a larger set of environments it will progress from an experimental status to stable.

The `description` field should provide an analyst who eventually works this detection with an understanding of what the rule is looking for. The `reference` field often contains source material or links to describe the attack path. The `author` field will present the individuals who wrote the rule. Lastly, the `date` field is when it was first published. Once a rule is published, it may be modified and a `modified:` tag will be added. The `tags:` field is based on the [MITRE ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org) naming convention which can then be used by an analyst to provide additional context or ideas on how to respond to a true positive detection. There will always be two elements in this field. One will be the “tactic” used which describes the larger branch that the "technique" you are identifying is under on the MITRE ATT&CK matrix, and then the "technique" which is represented by the numerical identifier of the specific technique the detection attempts to identify in the logs. If you are not familiar with MITRE ATT&CK, I highly recommend that you pause now and spend some time looking around.


The `logsource:` and the `detection:` fields are the meat of the Sigma rule, and where we will be spending the bulk of our time during this course. The log source fields will be interpreted by your converter and backend and transformed into, in our case with Splunk, an SPL representation of something like `index=win_events sourcetype:proc_creation`. Of course, how you name your indexes and sourcetypes (and fields for that matter), will all be based on your tools and internal decisions. We will work together to build a converter that takes care of this problem. The log sources are well-defined in the public Sigma repo and are rarely modified, but are designed to be generic. 

A `logsource` is made up of three components:

1. Category: the action-type that the logs related to this detection identify. In this case it is `process_creation` which indicates that the logs we are looking at are related to a process creation event. Some other category examples may be firewall or webserver or network connections.
2. Product: the specific product that the rule is interested in. In this case we’re looking at Windows logs but you will also see rules for Linux, MacOS, Apache, Okta, or other products.
3. Service: the specific service running inside of a product such as DNS, CloudTrail, or LDAP.

The `detection:` field defines the logic that actually makes up the associated query. Generally the detection is made up of a series of subfields that will be combined to make a more complex query. In this specific rule, everything in the `selection` subfield will be used and combined with an implied AND, resulting in SPL that looks something like: `index=win_event sourcetype=process_creation Image=’TeamViewer_Desktop.exe’ ParentImage=’TeamViewer_Service.exe’ CommandLine=’*TeamViewer_Desktop.exe --IPCport 5939 --Module 1’`. You will notice here that there is a modifier on the `CommandLine` field, `|endswith`, that prepends a line with a wildcard.

Before I show another rule example, I will quickly discuss the final two fields. `falsepositives:` is a place where the rule creator can describe what sort of scenarios might contribute to a false positive detection in an environment and `level:` describes the severity or criticality of the rule if a detection is triggered. Rules that are informative and do not require immediate action but may be helpful for threat hunting are described as `informational`, `low`, or `medium`. Rules that require a dedicated alert and should be immediately acted upon are `high` and `critical`. More than just criticality, the `level:` field also should describe the likelihood of a false positive and a `critical` detection should never trigger false positive events and always be of a high relevance that indicate immediate action to be taken by an analyst.

Now on to a more complex detection:

```yaml
title: Imports Registry Key From a File
id: 73bba97f-a82d-42ce-b315-9182e76c57b1
related:
    - id: 0b80ade5-6997-4b1d-99a1-71701778ea61
      type: similar
status: test
description: Detects the import of the specified file to the registry with regedit.exe.
references:
    - https://lolbas-project.github.io/lolbas/Binaries/Regedit/
    - https://gist.github.com/api0cradle/cdd2d0d0ec9abb686f0e89306e277b8f
author: Oddvar Moe, Sander Wiebing, oscd.community
date: 2020-10-07
modified: 2024-03-13
tags:
    - attack.t1112
    - attack.defense-evasion
logsource:
    category: process_creation
    product: windows
detection:
    selection_img:
        - Image|endswith: '\regedit.exe'
        - OriginalFileName: 'REGEDIT.EXE'
    selection_cli:
        CommandLine|contains:
            - ' /i '
            - ' /s '
            - '.reg'
    filter_1:
        CommandLine|contains|windash:
            - ' -e '
            - ' -a '
            - ' -c '
    filter_2:
        CommandLine|re: ':[^ \\]' # to avoid intersection with ADS rule
    condition: all of selection_* and not all of filter_*
fields:
    - ParentImage
    - CommandLine
falsepositives:
    - Legitimate import of keys
    - Evernote
level: medium
```
Focusing specifically on the `detection:` field, we see 4 subfields that are combined to build a more complex condition than before. By the Sigma standard you have two types of subfields: `selection` that defines what the rule is looking for and `filter` which describes false positives or irrelevant logs that need to be filtered out of the detection. In the condition you will see that it takes `all of selection_* and not all of filter_*` This is using a plain English sentence that is designed for a human to understand, but is also built upon specified conditions. `all of` states that you want an AND between each of the following fields, `selection_*` says that you want the fields modified by the previous condition to start with the string `selection_` and end with anything (thus the wildcard). The `and` and `not` will map exactly as you may expect them in the query where `and` joins objects to include items and `not` creates a negation to exclude elements. Finally we see the same stanza as before with `all of filter_*` that operates as previously described. Effectively this condition field is saying “Include everything from the fields that begin with selection and exclude everything from the fields that begin with filter”.

Now that we’ve described the final condition, we can discuss the modifiers for the fields themselves. A field modifier is always followed by a pipe character and will signify to the converter how that field value should be modified when converted. You’ve already seen the `|endswith` modifier that added a wildcard to the beginning of a string and you can probably guess that `|startswith` would add a wildcard to the end of a string. Here we use `|contains` which will add a wildcard to both ends of the string. We also are using lists for some of these fields that will convert to SPL in a format that looks like `CommandLine IN (“* /i*”, “* /s*”, “*.reg*”)`. A list will always imply that there is an OR between each item unless a modifier such as `|all` is used. This is very useful in this rule because a command line written by an attacker may have flags that are in a different order than expected. There are two more unique modifiers that this specific rule uses: `|windash` will be converted by the backend to include both the `cmd.exe` format and the `powershell.exe` format. In `cmd.exe` you may use a `/e`, `/a`, or `/c` flag where in PowerShell you would use `-e`, `-a`, or `-c`. The `|re` modifier is how the translator will identify that regex is being used.

Finally this rule uses the optional `fields:` field that is used by the converter to identify the fields that are important for the analyst to focus on during the detection. In our case they will always be used to create `|table` in Splunk.

This rule will be converted to the following SPL query:

```
Image="*\\regedit.exe" OR OriginalFileName="REGEDIT.EXE" CommandLine IN ("* /i *", "* /s *", "*.reg*") NOT (CommandLine="* -e *" OR CommandLine="* /e *" OR CommandLine="* -a *" OR CommandLine="* /a *" OR CommandLine="* -c *" OR CommandLine="* /c *")
| regex CommandLine=":[^ \\\\]"
| table ParentImage,CommandLine
```

Before moving to the next section, I recommend taking a moment to read the Sigma documentation and get an understanding of where you will find the resources necessary to better understand modifiers, conditions, and log sources: [https://sigmahq.io/docs/guide/getting-started.html](https://sigmahq.io/docs/guide/getting-started.html). We will later discuss this tool in depth, but I will introduce it here to provide a web and GUI based tool to convert rules on the fly: [https://sigconverter.io](https://sigconverter.io)

### Check for Understanding

**Read the following Sigma rules and convert them to SPL manually:**
**- [Chromium Browser Instance Executed With Custom Extension](https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma/blob/master/rules/windows/process_creation/proc_creation_win_browsers_chromium_load_extension.yml)**
**- [Network Connection Initiated To Mega.nz](https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma/blob/master/rules/windows/network_connection/net_connection_win_domain_mega_nz.yml)**
