# 2.3 :: Additional Transformations

Now that we understand what transformations are for and how to use conditional statements to apply them in specific circumstances, it is worth taking some time to look into the other transformation types available to us in the pySigma library. This will not be a comprehensive look at every transformation type. Instead, it will provide you with an understanding of what is out there and how to get started in writing your own complex transformations.

We have touched on the two most common transformations: the `add_condition` type and the `field_name_mapping` type. You will use these two in nearly every pipeline you build. Let's revisit one before we move forward:

```yaml
name: crowdstrike
priority: 10
transformations:
    - id: cs_reg_add_fieldmapping
      type: field_name_mapping
      mapping:
          Image: RegStringValue
      rule_conditions:
          - type: logsource
            product: windows
            category: registry_add
    - id: generic_mapping
      type: field_name_mapping
      mapping:
          ComputerName: host
          TargetObject: RegObjectName
          Image: ImageFileName
          ParentImage: ParentBaseFileName
          Command: TaskExecCommand
          Arguments: TaskExecArguments
          DestinationIp: RemoteAddressIP4
          DestinationPort: RemotePort
          QueryName: DomainName
          QueryResults: IP4Records
          SHA256: SHA256HashData
          MD5: MD5HashData
          ProcessId: RawProcessId
          FileName: TargetFileName
          SourceFilename: OriginalFilename
          OriginalFileName: OriginalFilename
          User: UserSid
      rule_conditions:
          - type: logsource
            product: windows
```

In this example pipeline we are using CrowdStrike logs and writing detections against them with our pipeline. We are defining an `id` of two rules, declaring the `type` to be `field_name_mapping`, and setting a mapping for many different fieldnames. You can include as many different mappings as you want here, which should save you quite a bit of time in your pipeline writing. Finally, we provide some `rule_conditions` to filter for specific scenarios that we care about during our transformation.

Pipelines are read from top to bottom. In my pipeline I keep specific transformations towards the top of the pipeline and then generic ones at the bottom. This works because the fieldname is transformed and stored in memory by the Sigma converter and when it reaches the generic transformation rule, it will no longer apply because the field name has changed. In this case, if the rule that is being processed has the logsource category of `registry_add`, the processor will first apply `cs_reg_add_fieldmapping` transformation and convert the fieldname `Image` to `RegStringValue`. Then, because the conditions for the next `generic_mapping` transformation also apply, it will convert any fields that match the `key:` value from the mappings list - but when it encouters the mapping of `Image: ImageFileName` it will do nothing because the fieldname `Image` has already been transformed to `RegStringValue`!

### Failure State Transformations

An interesting and important thing you can do with your pipeline is to define the state in which a failure should be handled or thrown. Back to our example of using CrowdStrike logs, you may know that CrowdStrike does not use EventID in the same way as Sysmon. This is likely true of many major EDR vendors because they handle their loging logic in their own unique way. We can handle this by just dropping rules that include the EventID field before they can be transformed and providing our converter with a useful error message that we can log and read later.

Consider the following transformation:

```yaml
name: transformation_demo
priority: 100
transformations:
    - id: cs_drop_eventid
      type: detection_item_failure
      message: CrowdStrike logs do not support the field EventID at this time.
      field_name_conditions:
          - type: include_fields
            fields:
                - EventID
      rule_conditions:
          - type: logsource
            product: windows
```

We are using the `type:` `detection_item_failure` and we are using two different conditions here: a `field_name_conditions` type and a `rule_conditions` type which will allow us to very narrowly define when this specific failure state is dropped. In our case we're looking for an instance where the field `EventID` is included and the logsource of the rule is for `product: Windows`. Then we simply drop an error message that is handled by the converter with our `message:` key:value pair.

There is also a `rule_failure` type that is functionally very similar to the `detection_item_failure` but is instead supposed to be focused on the whole rule rather than a specific detection item. You can write them both the same way and they will both drop a failure message to the converter, but will use a different exception type in the backend.

### Drop Detection Item

Similar to the failure state, there are times where a field exists in the public Sigma rules that just will never exist in your logs. In the case of the EventID based detections this is a critical component of the detection if you were to drop it, the rule would no longer make sense. There are other fields, such as `Hashes` that play an often minor role in rules and exist alongside complimentary detection logic.

```yaml
name: transformation_demo
priority: 100
transformations:
        # Drops the Hashes field which is specific to Sysmon logs
    - id: hashes_drop_sysmon-specific-field
      type: drop_detection_item
      field_name_conditions:
          - type: include_fields
            fields:
                - Hashes
```

Using this transformation, a rule like this one:

```yaml
title: Forest Blizzard APT - Process Creation Activity
id: 07db928c-8632-488e-ac7d-3db847489175
status: experimental
description: |
    Detects the execution of specific processes and command line combination.
    These were seen being created by Forest Blizzard as described by MSFT.
references:
    - https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2024/04/22/-analyzing-forest-blizzards-custom-post-compromise-tool-for-exploiting-cve-2022-38028-to-obtain-credentials/
author: Nasreddine Bencherchali (Nextron Systems)
date: 2024-04-23
tags:
    - attack.defense-evasion
    - attack.execution
logsource:
    category: process_creation
    product: windows
detection:
    selection_hashes:
        Hashes|contains:
            - '6b311c0a977d21e772ac4e99762234da852bbf84293386fbe78622a96c0b052f'
            - 'c60ead92cd376b689d1b4450f2578b36ea0bf64f3963cfa5546279fa4424c2a5'
    selection_schtasks_create:
        Image|endswith: '\schtasks.exe'
        CommandLine|contains|all:
            - 'Create'
            - '/RU'
            - 'SYSTEM'
            - '\Microsoft\Windows\WinSrv'
        CommandLine|contains:
            - 'servtask.bat'
            - 'execute.bat'
            - 'doit.bat'
    selection_schtasks_delete:
        Image|endswith: '\schtasks.exe'
        CommandLine|contains|all:
            - 'Delete'
            - '/F '
            - '\Microsoft\Windows\WinSrv'
    selection_powershell:
        CommandLine|contains:
            - 'Get-ChildItem'
            - '.save'
            - 'Compress-Archive -DestinationPath C:\ProgramData\'
    condition: 1 of selection_*
falsepositives:
    - Unknown
level: high
```

would convert to: `(Image="*\\schtasks.exe" CommandLine="*Create*" CommandLine="*/RU*" CommandLine="*SYSTEM*" CommandLine="*\\Microsoft\\Windows\\WinSrv*" CommandLine IN ("*servtask.bat*", "*execute.bat*", "*doit.bat*")) OR (Image="*\\schtasks.exe" CommandLine="*Delete*" CommandLine="*/F *" CommandLine="*\\Microsoft\\Windows\\WinSrv*") OR CommandLine IN ("*Get-ChildItem*", "*.save*", "*Compress-Archive -DestinationPath C:\\ProgramData\\*")`

You'll see that `Hashes` did not make it over! 

A word of caution here: be careful when dropping detection items. In this case there in an OR between the detection items meaning that the hashes field provides a complimentary addition to the detection logic. That is to say that this rule can still find malicious behavior without the hashes. In some other rules this field may be critical to the detection itself and dropping the field will result in a detection item that is either broken and leads to false positives or allows an attacker to bypass the detection entirely leading to the dreaded false negative—when a detection fails to match on the malicious behavior it was intended to find.

### Prefix and Suffix Modification

Sometimes the data in your SIEM will include a prefix or a suffix to group data of different types. It is common to see the prefix `win.` on your windows logs or in Windows IIS logs you may see the prefix `c-` for client logs and `s-` for server logs. We can do this transformation to generic field names pretty easily.

```yaml
name: prefix_transformation_demo
priority: 100
transformations:
    - id: windows_field_prefix
      type: field_name_prefix
      prefix: "win."
      rule_conditions:
          - type: logsource
            product: windows
```

This transformation will prepend the `win.` prefix on any field for any rule that is for the `product: windows`. Turning a field like `Image` to `win.Image`.

Similarly:

```yaml
name: prefix_transformation_demo
priority: 100
transformations:
    - id: windows_field_suffix
      type: field_name_suffix
      suffix: "-win"
      rule_conditions:
          - type: logsource             
            product: windows
```

This transformation will append the `-win` suffix on any field for any rule that is for the `product: windows`. Turning a field like `Image` to `Image-win`.

## Check for Understanding

Take a moment to review the pySigma documentation on [Processing Transformations
](https://sigmahq-pysigma.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Processing_Pipelines.html?highlight=Transformations#rule-pre-processing-transformations). See if you can use either sigconverter.io or the Sigma-CLI tool to write some examples of a few more transformations.

