# 2.5 :: Post Processing and Finalizers in depth

Post processing for Sigma rules is built on top of the Jinja2 Template designer. As described by the Jinja developers:

> A template contains variables and/or expressions, which get replaced with values when a template is rendered; and tags, which control the logic of the template. The template syntax is heavily inspired by Django and Python.

In our case we are using the post processing template to describe how the `savedsearches.conf` output will look when written to file. Let’s look again at the post processing statement we’ve been using up until now:

```yaml
postprocessing:
    - type: template
      template: |+
          [{{ rule.id }}]
          search = {{ query }} | eval rule="{{ rule.id }}", title="{{ rule.title }}" | collect index=notable_events
          description = "{{ rule.description }}"
```

In this case we are building a template that the Splunk engine will read to build the saved search. We are matching the format required in the Jinja2 expression and dropping the variables from our transformed search in the appropriate position. I am using this example in the course because it is what is documented by Thomas Patzke in his [blog](https://blog.sigmahq.io/introducing-query-post-processing-and-output-finalization-to-processing-pipelines-4bfe74087ac1) which is what will come up as the first result for anyone doing research on Sigma post processing. We are restricted to follow the format required by Splunk, but we are able to change these variables around as needed.

In this example we are using `{{ rule.id }}` to define the name of the rule in Splunk. This is okay because it is a unique identifier, but you may prefer something that is a little easier for you to read and understand what the rule does at a glance. You can replace this with `{{ rule.title }}` instead. We are using `| eval` to include context into the search results that will likely be interpreted downstream by our ticketing system and also pushing the detection into the `notable_events` index and both of these elements can be changed with whatever it is you decide to do with your detection generated events.

As stated in the blog by Thomas Patzke, the Jinja template is "backed by the pySigma data model for a Sigma rule (or alternatively the source code)." This gives us access to a lot of variables from the sigma rule such as the author, the fields, or the tags. We can access the query object and also the pipeline itself. We also have access to Jinja2 functions:

```yaml
postprocessing:
    - type: template
      template: |+
          [{{ rule.title }}]
          search = {{ query }} | eval rule="{{ rule.id }}", title="{{ rule.title }}" | collect index=notable_events addinfo=True source="{{ rule.id }}"
          description = "{{ rule.description | replace('\n', ' ') }}"
```

This will take the `description` from the Sigma rule and drop any newline characters so it does not break our `savedsearches.conf` file.

We also have access to the transformation conditions we discussed earlier. This allows you to build granular post processing elements as needed. If, for example, the detections that are related to Linux logs need to be pushed to a different collection index, you could do something like this:

```yaml
postprocessing:
    - type: template
      template: |+
          [{{ rule.id }}]
          search = {{ query }} | eval rule="{{ rule.id }}", title="{{ rule.title }}" | collect index=linux_notable_events
          description = "{{ rule.description }}"
      rule_conditions:
      - type: logsource
        product: linux
```

A finalizer is the final polish you will put on your output. This is useful in our context to provide the default values for a `savedsearches.conf` file. You can use post processing templates and rule conditions to define the specific values of the search that you need, like the `cron_schedule` value, and then set a default value in the finalizer. This way you can specify only where it is necessary and every other search will just obtain the defaults.

```yaml
finalizers:
    - type: concat
      prefix: |
          [default]
          cron_schedule = */15 * * * *
          dispatch.earliest_time = -20m@m
          dispatch.latest_time = -5m@m
```
### Using Post Processing for Troubleshooting

We've seen how you can use the post processing templates to include rule elements in the output, but take a moment to play around with this. There are a few little nuances of the Jinja language that let you see behind the hood.

Drop the following post processing element at the end of any of your previously used pipelines on beta.sigconverter.io:

```yaml
postprocessing:
    - type: template
      template: |+
          [{{ query }}]
        
          [{{ rule }}]
        
          [{{ pipeline }}]
```

The output is fun! You can see a lot of things going on in the background that assist in the logic of how the rule is transformed. I use this for debugging pipelines that aren't working as I expected. You may use it to aid in your processing by presenting the pipeline name that was used as a description of the rule. Poke around here and see what you can find.
