# 3.0 :: Automation

If you’re anything like me, you don’t want to spend the rest of your career copy and pasting from one GUI to another. So let’s work on some automation!

By the end of this section you will have the infrastructure that allows you to publish new Sigma rules to a GitHub repo, have them automatically convert into `savedsearches.conf` format, get published in your Splunk environment, periodically execute searches against your logs, and then present you with single detection events that you can later analyze in your normal security operations workflow. If you wanted to, you could take all ~2,000 Windows detection rule from the Sigma repo and convert them into scheduled searches all automatically every morning (this is not recommended based on the standard hardware and resources allocated for this course).

The GitHub repo included with this course that you should have cloned by now does not include many rules. Feel free to take a moment now to browse the [official Sigma repo](https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma) and pick a few Windows rules to put in your testing folder or take some of the examples we've used so far.

With our environment configured, let's work together to confirm everything works as we'd expect. We need to walk before we can run.

We've already pulled the latest version of our repo and made a local copy. You will see two folders that we will be using heavily from this point on: `rules/testing/` and `rules/production/`. Consider the testing folder as your backlog of work -- rules that you need to modify and test before you're willing to create alerts from them. The production folder will be the rules that are verified and ready to go.

*As a quick note on Detection Engineering Etiquette: Your goal as a Detection Engineer should not be to create detections that might identify malicious behavior. Instead, your goal should be to **produce meaningful, precise, and well documented detections** that are **very likely** to identify malicious behavior and have been **tuned to generate a limited number of actionable events**. Remember that on the other end of your detection is an analyst who must do their job in verifying if there is a threat actor in your network. Make their job easier!*

With that being said, we're not ready for production yet anyway. So we're going to push all of the rules in the testing folder into Splunk and quickly delete the `savedsearches.conf` file once we know it looks good and before any events are generated. 

With the pipeline that we built in section 2, we will convert all of the rules in this folder and output them to file. Run the following command:

```shell
sigma convert \
--target 'splunk' \
--pipeline ~/detection-with-sigma/backend/pipelines/pipeline.yml \
~/detection-with-sigma/rules/testing/ \
--skip-unsupported \
--output ~/detection-with-sigma/backend/savedsearches.conf
```

Quickly open this file and glance over it. It should look familiar based on what we've done up until this point, but much larger. Make sure the formatting looks how you'd expect it to.

Now we will overwrite the `savedsearches.conf` file that Splunk is using in our custom Sigma app with the new one with the following command:

```shell
mv ~/detection-with-sigma/backend/savedsearches.conf ~/detection-with-sigma/app/sigma/local/savedsearches.conf
```

Can you guess the next step here? We need to tell Splunk to refresh and load the new configuration. We could do this by visiting the reload endpoint in our browser again, but this is the automation chapter! Let's use curl:

```shell
curl -k -u <your username>:<your password> https://<Splunk Server IP>:8089/servicesNS/-/sigma/saved/searches/_reload
```

Now we can navigate to our app and view the scheduled searches in the report tab again. You should see a ton of rules here. Now, quickly delete them before they start running and crash your Splunk container!

Open the file `~/detection-with-sigma/app/sigma/local/savedsearches.conf`, delete all of the contents, and execute the previous `curl` command again.

